---
title: 'Long Definations'
---

#### Long Definations

1. What are the neccessary condition for deadloack?

- **Mutual Exclusion:** Two or more resources are non-shareable (Only one process can use at a time).
- **Hold and Wait:** A process is holding at least one resource and waiting for resources. 
- **No Preemption:** A resource cannot be taken from a process unless the process releases the resource. 
- **Circular Wait:** A set of processes are waiting for each other in circular form. 

2. Different deadlock recovery teachniques.

- **Killing the process** –
Killing all the processes involved in the deadlock. Killing process one by one. After killing each process check for deadlock again keep repeating the process till the system recovers from deadlock. Killing all the processes one by one helps a system to break circular wait condition.
- **Resource Preemption** –
Resources are preempted from the processes involved in the deadlock, preempted resources are allocated to other processes so that there is a possibility of recovering the system from deadlock. In this case, the system goes into starvation.

**3. Operation of semaphore**

The definitions of wait and signal are as follows −

- **_Wait_**
The wait operation decrements the value of its argument S, if it is positive. If S is negative or zero, then no operation is performed.

```
wait(S){
   while (S<=0);
   S--;
}
```
- **_Signal_**
The signal operation increments the value of its argument S.

```
signal(S){
   S++;
}
```

4. 
