---
title: 'Benefits of oop'
---

### Benefits of OOP

##### Short defination

1. Re-usability
2. Data redundancy
3. Code maintance
4. Security
5. Design benifits
6. Better productivity
7. Easy troubleshooting

---

##### Long defination
1. We can build the programs from standard working modules that communicate with one another, rather than having to start writing the code from scratch which leads to saving of development time and higher productivity,
OOP language allows to break the program into the bit-sized problems that can be solved easily (one object at a time).
2. The new technology promises greater programmer productivity, better quality of software and lesser maintenance cost.
OOP systems can be easily upgraded from small to large systems.
3. It is possible that multiple instances of objects co-exist without any interference,
4. It is very easy to partition the work in a project based on objects.
5. It is possible to map the objects in problem domain to those in the program.
6. The principle of data hiding helps the programmer to build secure programs which cannot be invaded by the code in other parts of the program.
7. By using inheritance, we can eliminate redundant code and extend the use of existing classes.
8. Message passing techniques is used for communication between objects which makes the interface descriptions with external systems much simpler.
9. The data-centered design approach enables us to capture more details of model in an implementable form.


#### Advantage and Disadvantage of OOP

|Advantages |	Disadvantages|
|----------|-------------|
|We can reuse the code multiple times using class|	Size is larger than other programs|
|Inherit the class to subclass for data redundancy|	It required a lot of effort to create|
|It is easy to maintain and modify|	It is slower than other programs|
|It maintains the security of data|	It is not suitable for some sorts of problems|
|Low-cost development|	It takes time to get used to it.|