---
title: "Basic concept of Java"
---

#### Advantages of Java

1. Simple
2. Object-Oriented
3. Secured
4. Robust
5. Platform independent
6. Multi-Threaded
7. Compiled and Interpreted
8. Dynamic and Extensible


#### Byte code

The compilers converts the source code files into bytecode files. These code are machine independent and therefore can be run on any machine.

#### JVM

JVM(Java Virtual Machine) acts as a run-time engine to run Java applications. JVM is the one that actually calls the main method present in a java code.

#### Data types 

1. Primitive data types
2. Non-premitive data types


- Primitive data types

	1. boolean data type
	2. byte data type
	3. char data type
	4. short data type
	5. int data type
	6. long data type
	7. float data type
	8. double data type

- Non-premitive data types
	- Arrays
	- String
	- Classes
	- Interface
	- etc

#### Access specifier

There are four types of Java access modifiers:

- Private: The access level of a private modifier is only within the class. It cannot be accessed from outside the class.
- Default: The access level of a default modifier is only within the package. It cannot be accessed from outside the package. If you do not specify any access level, it will be the default.
- Protected: The access level of a protected modifier is within the package and outside the package through child class. If you do not make the child class, it cannot be accessed from outside the package.
- Public: The access level of a public modifier is everywhere. It can be accessed from within the class, outside the class, within the package and outside the package.
