---
title: 'Control statements and loop'
---
1. Decision Making statements
	- if statements
	- switch statement
2. Loop statements
	- do while loop
	- while loop
	- for loop
3. Jump statements
	- break statement
	- continue statement

#### if statement

In Java, the "if" statement is used to evaluate a condition. The control of the program is diverted depending upon the specific condition. The condition of the If statement gives a Boolean value, either true or false. In Java, there are four types of if-statements given below.
1. Simple if statement
```java
	if(condition) {    
		statement 1; //executes when condition is true   
	}  
```
2. if-else statement
```java
	if(condition) {    
		statement 1; //executes when condition is true   
	}else{  
		statement 2; //executes when condition is false   
	}  
```
3. if-else-if ladder
```java
	if(condition 1) {    
		statement 1; //executes when condition 1 is true   
	}else if(condition 2) {  
		statement 2; //executes when condition 2 is true   
	}else {  
		statement 2; //executes when all the conditions are false   
	}  
```
4. Nested if-statement
```java
	if(condition 1) {    
		statement 1; //executes when condition 1 is true  

		if(condition 2) {  
			statement 2; //executes when condition 2 is true   
		}else{  
			statement 2; //executes when condition 2 is false   
		}  
	} 
```

#### Switch statement
In Java, Switch statements are similar to if-else-if statements. The switch statement contains multiple blocks of code called cases and a single case is executed based on the variable which is being switched. The switch statement is easier to use instead of if-else-if statements. It also enhances the readability of the program.

```java
switch (expression){  
    case value1:  
		statement1;  
		break;  
    case value2:  
		statement2;  
		break;
    default:  
		default statement;  
}  
```


#### For loop

It enables us to initialize the loop variable, check the condition, and increment/decrement in a single line of code. We use the for loop only when we exactly know the number of times, we want to execute the block of code.

```java
for(int i =0;, i< 5, i++) {    
	//block of statements    
}   
```

#### While loop

The while loop is also used to iterate over the number of statements multiple times. However, if we don't know the number of iterations in advance, it is recommended to use a while loop.
It is also known as the entry-controlled loop since the condition is checked at the start of the loop. If the condition is true, then the loop body will be executed; otherwise, the statements after the loop will be executed.

```java
while(i > 4){    
	//looping statements   
	i++;
}  
```

#### Do-while loop

The do-while loop checks the condition at the end of the loop after executing the loop statements. When the number of iteration is not known and we have to execute the loop at least once, we can use do-while loop.

It is also known as the exit-controlled loop since the condition is not checked in advance.
```java
do{
	//statements    
} while (i!= 5);
```

#### Jump statement
Jump statements are used to transfer the control of the program to the specific statements. In other words, jump statements transfer the execution control to the other part of the program. There are two types of jump statements in Java, i.e., break and continue.

#### Break statement

As the name suggests, the break statement is used to break the current flow of the program and transfer the control to the next statement outside a loop or switch statement.

```java
public class BreakExample {  
  
	public static void main(String[] args) {  
		// TODO Auto-generated method stub  
		for(int i = 0; i<= 10; i++) {  
			System.out.println(i);  
			if(i==6) {  
				break;  
			}  
		}  
	}  
} 
```


#### Continue Statement

Unlike break statement, the continue statement doesn't break the loop, whereas, it skips the specific part of the loop and jumps to the next iteration of the loop immediately.

```java
public class ContinueExample {  
  
	public static void main(String[] args) {  
		// TODO Auto-generated method stub  
		for(int i = 0; i<= 2; i++) {  
			for (int j = i; j<=5; j++) {  
				if(j == 4) {  
					continue;  
				}  
				System.out.println(j);  
			}  
		}  
	}
}  
```