---
title: "Short notes"
---

1. **Sustainable development** is an organizing principle for meeting human development goals while also sustaining the ability of natural systems to provide the natural resources and ecosystem services on which the economy and society depend. The desired result is a state of society where living conditions and resources are used to continue to meet human needs without undermining the integrity and stability of the natural system. Sustainable development was defined in the 1987 Brundtland Report as "Development that meets the needs of the present generation without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs". As the concept of sustainable development developed, it has shifted its focus more towards the economic development, social development and environmental protection for future generations.

2. **Secularism** is the principle of seeking to conduct human affairs based on secular, naturalistic considerations.
Secularism is most commonly defined as the separation of religion from civic affairs and the state, and may be broadened to a similar position seeking to remove or to minimize the role of religion in any public sphere. The term "secularism" has a broad range of meanings, and in the most schematic, may encapsulate any stance that promotes the secular in any given context. It may connote anti-clericalism, atheism, naturalism, non-sectarianism, neutrality on topics of religion, or the complete removal of religious symbols from public institutions

3. **Global warming** is a term used for the observed century-scale rise in the average temperature of the Earth's climate system and its related effects. Scientists are more than 95% certain that nearly all of global warming is caused by increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases (GHGs) and other human-caused emissions. Within the earth's atmosphere, accumulating greenhouse gases like water vapor, carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, and ozone are the gases within the atmosphere that absorb and emit heat radiation.

4. **Renewable energy** is energy that is collected from renewable resources that are naturally replenished on a human timescale. It includes sources such as sunlight, wind, the movement of water, and geothermal heat. Although most renewable energy sources are sustainable, some are not. For example, some biomass sources are considered unsustainable at current rates of exploitation. Renewable energy often provides energy for electricity generation to a grid, air and water heating/cooling, and stand-alone power systems. 

5. **Technology transfer** is the movement of data, designs, inventions, materials, software, technical knowledge or trade secrets from one organisation to another or from one purpose to another. The technology transfer process is guided by the policies, procedures and values of each organisation involved in the process.

6. **The Technological Impact Analysis (TIA)** is a learning and teaching technique that requires learners to investigate and understand general technological advancement while studying the history, evolution and impact of a specific past or contemporary technology.

_Steps for technology impact analysis_
- Select technology for impact assessment:
- Identify target domain 
- Define level of impact assessment
- Select the comparison method for impact assessment
- Select the sample size for evaluating impact
- Designing baseline survey
- Define indicators for impact assessment
- Select appropriate methodology
- Data collection and analysis

7. **Aesthetic value** is the value that an object, event, or state of affairs (most paradigmatically an artwork or the natural environment) possesses in virtue of its capacity to elicit pleasure (positive value) or displeasure (negative value) when appreciated or experienced aesthetically.

8. **Impact of automation:** Workers who can work with machines are more productive than those without them; this reduces both the costs and prices of goods and services, and makes consumers feel richer. As a result, consumers spend more, which leads to the creation of new jobs.

9. **Value Spectrum:** Spectrum value is a form of rent. The derived value of spectrum is based on the value that spectrum adds to wireless services. This principle applies for all spectrum-based services, including mobile communications, fixed communications, or detection applications (radar).

10. **Human-centred technology** is an alternative approach to the design of manufacturing systems where the operator is considered an "asset" rather than a "nuisance". A human-centred system utilizes and relies on the operator's skill, knowledge, flexibility and creativity. It also gives him the control over and the responsibility for the system.