---
title: "Questions And Answer"
---

**1. What is CSR policy? what are the social and ethical responsibilties associated with it?**

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is the idea that a company should play a positive role in the community and consider the environmental and social impact of business decisions. It is closely linked to sustainability − creating economic, social, and environmental value – and ESG, which stands for Environmental, Social, and Governance. All three focus on non-financial factors that companies, large and small, should consider when making business decisions.

Social:
deal with diverse, local and socially responsible suppliers and partners
consult community stakeholders about business decisions
support community initiatives

Ethics: ??

[writtern from](https://www.bdc.ca/en/articles-tools/entrepreneur-toolkit/templates-business-guides/glossary/corporate-social-responsibility#:~:text=Corporate%20Social%20Responsibility%20(CSR)%20is,social%20impact%20of%20business%20decisions.)  


**2. What do you mean by Ethical Dilemma?**

An ethical dilemma (ethical paradox or moral dilemma) is a problem in the decision-making process between two possible options, neither of which is absolutely acceptable from an ethical perspective. Although we face many ethical and moral problems in our lives, most of them come with relatively straightforward solutions. On the other hand, ethical dilemmas are extremely complicated challenges that cannot be easily solved. Therefore, the ability to find the optimal solution in such situations is critical to everyone.
Every person may encounter an ethical dilemma in almost every aspect of their life, including personal, social, and professional.

**3. Explain the report of Club of Rome?**

The Club of Rome is a nonprofit, informal organization of intellectuals and business leaders whose goal is a critical discussion of pressing global issues. The Club of Rome was founded in 1968 at Accademia dei Lincei in Rome, Italy. It consists of one hundred full members selected from current and former heads of state and government, UN administrators, high-level politicians and government officials, diplomats, scientists, economists, and business leaders from around the globe.[1] It stimulated considerable public attention in 1972 with the first report to the Club of Rome, The Limits to Growth. Since 1 July 2008, the organization has been based in Winterthur, Switzerland.

**4. Explain the concept of societal value?**

Social values are a set of principles that are morally acceptable by society. These principles are created by the dynamics of the community, institutions in the society, traditions, and cultural beliefs of the people in the society. The laws are a guide for people in society on how to conduct themselves appropriately.

**5. What do you mean by Whistle blowing? What are the main factors influencing whistle blowing?** 

A whistleblower is a person, who could be an employee of a company, or a government agency, disclosing information to the public or some higher authority about any wrongdoing, which could be in the form of fraud, corruption, etc. Obvious cases for the whistleblower system are violations of national and union laws. Other examples include serious cases of misconduct or events that pose a risk to the environment or for other people’s safety, events that may have a negative impact on the company’s finances or conduct that is not in line with the company’s ethical policies. 

These factors include philosophical values, anonymity, cash reward, ethical climate, organizational commitment, job satisfaction, enforcement of a code of ethics, and job guarantees.

**6. Define a 'Code of Professional Ethics'. Explain some of the universally accepted code of professional ethics.**

A code of ethics in business is a set of guiding principles intended to ensure a business and its employees act with honesty and integrity in all facets of its day-to-day operations and to only engage in acts that promote a benefit to society.

- **Compliance-Based Code of Ethics:**
For all businesses, laws regulate issues such as hiring and safety standards. Compliance-based codes of ethics not only set guidelines for conduct but also determine penalties for violations.

- **Value-Based Code of Ethics:**
A value-based code of ethics addresses a company’s core value system. It may outline standards of responsible conduct as they relate to the larger public good and the environment. Value-based ethical codes may require a greater degree of self-regulation than compliance-based codes.

- **Code of Ethics in Different Professions:**
Certain professions, such as those in the finance or health fields, have specific laws that mandate codes of ethics and conduct. 


**7. How has growth of science and technology created an adverse impact on the Indian scoiety? Is the rapid growth of science and technology in India needed at all?**

In the past few decades, technology grows rapidly. And the use of technology is also increased drastically. It affects the life of people and changes the way of their learning, thinking, and communication. It plays a major role in society, and now it is very tough to imagine the life without technology. Both technology and society are co-related, co-dependent, co-influence with each other. Technology lays an impact on society, including the potential for society to progress or decline, in both good and bad manner. Our society is shaped by technology, which has both beneficial and harmful consequences. Human societies and technology have grown inextricably linked since technical systems like mobile phones, computers, TV, etc. are produced by humans and reflect the very basis of a population’s needs and lifestyle. Although technology improves the lifestyle of human being, it also a major concern for the future generations. Nowadays, people are excessively using technology which reduce their physical activities that directly effect their health. Also, due to the excessive use of technology there are so many cybercrimes happens everyday in which someone steals the identity or personal information of the victim, such as Unique ID number, PAN number, Debit Card, etc., and uses it to conduct a crime or perpetrate fraud without our permission. Some other cyber crimes are:

- Hacking: An effort to manipulate a computer system or a network within a computer is known as hacking. It is unauthorized control of computer systems with the intention of committing a crime.
- Credit/Debit Card theft: Credit card fraud refers to any type of fraud involving a payment card, such as a credit or debit card. The objective could be to obtain products or services, or to transfer the funds to a criminal-controlled account.
- Malware installation: Any program or file that is dangerous to a computer user is known as malware. Viruses, worms, Trojan horses, and spyware are all examples of malware.
- E-mail threat: The use of email to deceive another person for personal benefit or to harm another person.
- Phishing: Depending on the offender, phishing attempts can target a wide spectrum of people. It’s possible that these are generic phishing emails aimed at anyone with a PayPal account. These are frequently identified as phishing attempts.
- Spams: An undesired, uninvited digital message that is sent in large quantities is known as spam. You can get spam via email, phone calls, text messages etc.
- ATM cards theft: ATM fraud refers to a crime in which the criminal make the payments for the criminal activities via some other person’s ATM card using the PIN.


**8. What do you mean by Social Audit?**

Social audit is a process of reviewing official records and determining whether state reported expenditures reflect the actual monies spent on the ground. The central objective of such a social audit is to monitor, track, analyze, and evaluate government performance, thus making public officials accountable for their actions and decisions.

**9. Discuss the value of crisis in contemprary socitey?**

Value crisis is when the practice of members of the society starts deviating from the values we hold dear. When there is a general acceptance of corrupt practices and unethical activities, then the society as a whole is in value crisis. It creates a new normal of acceptance of dishonesty, lies and immoral behavior. In the contemporary world, there has been gradual deterioration of moral and ethical moors. Things are being justified in terms of ends and opportunities. In India, we have started accepting retail corruption as normal and in fact justifying it. 
_Strategies to control value crisis in the contemporary world are as follows:_

- Parents should be made aware of the importance of raising children with right values and that they should themselves become role models for their children.
- Schools should have value lessons embedded in syllabus.
- Code of ethics for organizations. Right ethical conduct should be rewarded.
- The cost of unethical behavior should be made high by increasing punishment. Just increasing the punishment will not do. Implementation should also be proper.
- People who are generally the victims in the society should be made aware of their rights. Dalits and women should made aware of their rights and ways to register complaints and get justice.
- Popular leaders should use their appeal to inculcate good values in the society.


**10. Discuss Technology impact analysis. What are the problems of technology transfer? Discuss the social responsibilites of technologists.**

The Technological Impact Analysis (TIA) is a learning and teaching technique that requires learners to investigate and understand general technological advancement while studying the history, evolution and impact of a specific past or contemporary technology.

_The Five Top problems For Technology Transfer._
- Product / process not properly defined.
- Lack of Experience.
- Lack of a Technology Transfer Plan.
- Use of substitute equipment.
- Dedicated Technology Transfer Manager.

_Social responsibities of technologits are:_
- Environmental Responsibility.
- Ethical Responsibility.
- Philanthropic Responsibility.
- Economic Responsibility.

**11. Discus the appropiriate technology movement of Schumacher. Discuss the conflicts between business demands and professional ideals.**

Schumacher's initial concept of intermediate technology was created as a critique of the currently prevailing development strategies which focused on maximizing aggregate economic growth through increases to overall measurements of a country's economy, such as gross domestic product (GDP). Appropriate technology was meant to address four problems: extreme poverty, starvation, unemployment and urban migration. Schumacher saw the main purpose for economic development programs was the eradication of extreme poverty and he saw a clear connection between mass unemployment and extreme poverty. 

Business demands and professional ideals differ in a lot of aspects, however, primarily, profession demands qualification while business does not want any. In addition to that, business aims at profit while professional ideals requires a set of skills and using them in earning profit through the industry. In a business, the working person need not be professional but in a professional setup , they have to be an expert and have a certificate in that field.

**12. Explain the concept of conflict of interest with an example. How can conflict of interest be resolved?**

A conflict of interest arises when what is in a person's best interest is not in the best interest of another person or organization to which that individual owes loyalty. For example, an employee may simultaneously help himself but hurt his employer by taking a bribe to purchase inferior goods for his company's use.

- **Communicate:**Open communication is key in a dispute. Expressing how you feel about the situation and sticking to the facts will let the other person know you’re genuine in your actions. Focusing on the problem at hand and not what the other person did will avoid unnecessary conflict.
- **Actively Listen:** Listen to what the other person has to say, without interrupting. Try to be objective. Then, ask open-ended questions to make sure each side understands what the other person thinks and how he/she feels.
- **Review Options:** Talk over the options, looking for solutions that benefit everyone. Do not feel pressured to come up with one answer immediately. Bring in objective third party for ideas, if necessary.
- **End with a Win-Win Solution:** This is the ultimate goal—to agree on an option that benefits both sides to some extent. When one party wins by aggressive behavior or one party simply gives in, someone is losing. And that means you get outcomes that do not resolve the underlying causes of the conflict.


**13. What are the ethical practices of engineering profession?**

- Hold paramount the safety, health, and welfare of the public.
- Perform services only in areas of their competence.
- Issue public statements only in an objective and truthful manner.
- Act for each employer or client as faithful agents or trustees.
- Avoid deceptive acts.
- Conduct themselves honorably, responsibly, ethically, and lawfully so as to enhance the honor, reputation, and usefulness of the profession.